Valve released a 2013 card game, in 2018. It didn't turn out well... This game is dead atm, Valve said they will try to fix it but probably not until the end of 2019 or 2020 or maybe never... "Valve time"
The devs have given up on this game. There is no communication to the player base about MAJOR overhauls Artifact desperately needs to be successful and fun.
The strategy element to this game revolves entirely around RnG, so its not really strategic at all. It is comparable to playing a slot machine at a casino except much less rewarding. Deck composition and forward planning mean very little in this game because placement and attack routes are completely randomly decided. There are moments of extreme frustration and that is about it.
There were some good ideas and concepts but this game has fallen very short of what it could have been. I recommend that you save your time and money. After 200+ hours of trying to figure out the appeal of this game I've finally determined that there is none.
Way over-hyped, horrible playing mechanisms. The ONLY thing going for it is the art style.  As a huge fan of digital TCG/CCG's on both pc and mobile, this by far, ranks as one of the worst played. The only sort that are worse are those which the player has no control over and the cards just battle on their own in a linear fashion, but then, they shouldn't really be considered to be in the same genre anyway.
Stay away. There is nothing here for those who prefer the more popular card games out there on the market today.
I shouldn't lose a game because the heroes I place in a lane are randomly assigned to the wrong enemies.
If I have a lane I need to save and the one hero I'm trying to block is free to kill my tower and win because 'RNG', that's not fun. That's shit game design.
This game is bloated, the matches are tedious and the ones you have every right to win will either be lost or will be a TRIAL to get through because of RNG.
Player base died quicker than Michael Jackson's fan base after Leaving Neverland.
It's a great game, but it's not the kind of game that I'm going to invest all my time into. People who are interested in these kind of games, are probably already playing MTG / MTG Arena, Hearthstone, Slay the Spire etc. and it's just not an easy market to enter especially when your target market seems to be Dota 2 players, who don't really seem interested in Artifact (with the exception of SirActionSlacks and our fellow lore hungry spoonheads).
Downvoted because it is primarily a multiplayer game, yet has a small and dying player base so I can't recommend purchasing it. The game either needs to switch to a F2P model or significantly reduce its price.
This game had some good ideas, but it's not really interesting enough to warrant the payment model. Furthermore, the card game market is already saturated with good ideas that I don't want to play, and they are substantially cheaper.
Do yourself a favor and pick up Slay the Spire to fill the card game itch.
Extreme issues with rng that were NEVER fixed, some of the mechanics (cheating death) are just terrible and this game is never updated. This game could've been much better, but Valve didn't even try.
I purchased a game, now Valve purports to "recreate" it as an entirely different game.  Many who purchased, myself included, felt the game was so barebones it should have released as an Early Access title, perhaps Valve has now come to that conclusion as well, given the game may change beyond recognition.
Thankfully, I never invested in it beyond the initial $20 USD to purchase.  As for the cards & tickets I received at that time, I have no plans to sell them.  I'll leave them in my inventory as a reminder.
Deep down, there is a good game here. It's deeply strategic and games always feel like real nail-biters. But there is also some very deep flaws to the overall gameplay. These flaws unfortunately overwhelm the positive aspects of the game. In theory a game of cards based on Dota Lore should be a slam dunk, but this feels like a major air ball. I'm hoping Valve can do something to revive this game. I honestly don't know what they can do other than a complete overhaul of the core gameplay mechanics.
Was a good Idea and was fun to play. Then I noticed you gotta pay to play each time you want new cards. Yes there couple packs you can get for free but that´s more to keep you playing for a short period of time.
I'm writting this review with sadness in my heart. (waw emotional)
I loved this game when it came out.. the additional lore was great.. the voice actors came back.. the music was lovely..but i felt like it was missing something.
I don't know what went wrong.. but at the time when i'm writting this review.. there are only 277 people in-game.. and it's actually fucking sad.
They said that they wanna "reboot" the game.. in some way or another.. but until then.. my review remains negative.
Please don't pay 18 euros for this.. in this state..wait for that "update" if you really wanna try it...but then again..they said that it's gonna take a while.
So much hype and now we got an update from valve saying the game will be redesigned. So how long will it take ? How much will it cost ? If the game is going to be free to play , then what would the pre-order customer get? Or will the game be scrapped since garfield left.
Aesthetically, it's the most beautiful card game you will ever see. The art is great, the animations are fantastic.
The base mechanics are decent.
However, after those, the game falls apart.
Wait for the remake. They have no choice.
So many things done wrong, from the market for cards, to the pay to play mods, the gameplay that is ruined by auto-placing minions on the board randomly... just, don't buy it, it sucks
Expected a fresh new skill based card game. Instead I was playing pretty long games (because my opponents took all the time in the world before they decied to pass a round..) that were heavily influenced by starting hero placement, creep placement and bullshit random arrows. Nothing feels better than losing a 40 min long game cuz of one stupid RNG aspect of the game. I mean I know there will always be RNG in card games and as a former Hearthstone player I am used to it. But there is so much unnecessary RNG already and there will be more and more as they add new cards. I really hoped it would be like hearthstone in the beggining where there was very limited RNG that felt much less impactful than in this game. :(
It was clear 4 months ago that this game badly needed an update. It is lacking so many features. Now the playerbase has left, the game is dead and I wish I could get a refund.
I come from a Prismata, Hearthstone, Eternal and MTGA background and really loved this game the most. But Valve obviously drop the ball on this one and I don't believe they'll be able to sustain the continuous need of a successful CCG with their no management infrastructure and no communication. I hope to proven wrong.
I bought this game thinking it would be similar to magic or in the hopes something that seemed like it was worth my time. I like the aspect that you play it out like a dota match but then you dont get a regular amount of creeps in every lane? odd cause every dota clone I play gets the same ammount of minions in the lanes! I do love the fact that you can buy ANY card in the game.....only sad thing is there is no resale value. this could be a better game if they fix a few issues but for now id avoid playing this if your not a hard core card gamer or dota fan
Seriously what the fuck, Valve? This game is fucking awesome if properly maintained, and I am even ready to throw hell lots of money into it. It has depth and everything else. A great game indeed. Aaaaand then the game is dead. REVIVE THIS FUCKING GAME VALVE
Was saying this since the devs started making first showmatches and videos. It's a dull, almost deterministic game.
Has more semblance to slightly randomized chess than a card game.
Has no hallmarks of a Richard Garfield game.
The monetization model is naive and outdated.
Other than solid production values, this game really has nothing going for it. Devs have promised they will redesign it - which is honestly the only way to save it. Save your time and money and wait for a rework.
What the hell happened here?
I quite enjoyed the game but now it's tumbleweed.
Being competitive with a game that cost money to buy required more money to play which kinda put me off.
All the same to see it so dead now just a few weeks after launch.
Oh well. Back to Gwent
Never trusting Valve again.  Wasted money buying the full set.  Will not buy any DOTA battle passes or anything else Valve related anymore.
They abandoned the game 1 month after release.
No one plays it. Bad idea to launch a game without any progression for players. I got it as a gift from a friend but unlike Hearthstone for example, I didn't see any point in learning the mechanics - no ranking, no free tournaments, nothing.  How can they launch this game like that is beyond me. Now it has received some updates but...no one really cares anymore. Like other comments said, Dota Auto Chess is better than this...
The very beginning of Artifact was amazing. There weren't prebuilt decks pros recommended, and you could make your own decisions with your own strategies. Now the meta is all figured out, and you just buy the deck that gets you the win. I'm a casual card player, and I hate that aspect.
I'm mixed on this game.  Simply put, this game is a lot of fun.  It's very unique with its gameplay, but for me personally, I never had any intention of playing anything aside of vs bots.  I don't really have any competitive urge anymore.  The issue I have is that vs AI has --NO-- experience gain.  That means no free card packs for playing.  It really takes away from the sense of accomplishment and building up when you have to go to the marketplace and choose what cards you want.
I can't wait for the revamp to the game.  Gameplay is really solid and doesn't need any change, it's the microtransactions and lack of experience in single player.
The cards being so cheap on the market thanks to everyone cashing out does make draft a huge joke. Same with buying packs, complete waste of money. Just buy the cards you want for 3cents each. The whole card economy and incentive structure for this game is screwed.
Game is sadly dead right now. Finding matches takes forever.
I still like the game itself so far. It's a pity there are huge fatal flaws.
It's actually such a good game, cannot understand why people aren't playing this, best card game out there atm. Please somebody come on so i can play against more than one person
Brothers and sisters, The Update is coming. With every passing day my visions grow stronger: An open beta. A better F2P grind. And a PR team that whispers 'Prepare for better advertising.' Prepare. Such a simple word that does no justice to the Long Haul that lies before us... We must be heralds; walking testimonies to the brilliance of The Game. Spreading the word of The Update's glorious arrival, no matter if that message is received with joy or scorn. We must be architects; building not just another balance change for those who believe what I have seen, but an entire rework that is worthy of The Update's splendor. We must be zealots; willing to lay down our wallets in defense of this sacred game, because rest assured we are at war. Hearthstone and its deceptive cash grab business model will stop at nothing to undo the work that we've accomplished, and that is why we must return in kind. -GabeN, Priest of the Volvo
Ok, First Blood! negative reviews......   but this is going to be a late game match for sure (Valve Carry?).
If you want to wait for the retooling, that's ok, and if you didn't find it to your taste, that's ok too, but I feel a lot of what is great about CCG's can be found in Artifact, and if you like CCG's and Dota, you might really want to cancel the auto-attack and not last hit just yet :)
Artifact is great in many, many ways!  I was greatly saddened by the decline, and (perhaps partially unfounded) negativity of many people (just like the real Dota community!). It has great game-play, lots of strategy, and most of my matches have been very very close, and always engaging. I also play Dota, so I LOVED all of the parallels between the two games.... 5 heroes. 3 lanes, items equipment, buffs, it all felt like a fantastic little version of a Dota match in card form (without the required crazy good reaction time)! I felt a little like the game was made for me specifically. I was even pretty excited about the market.... I checked prices for 2 months daily and tracked values and bought and sold cards like it was a secondary mini-game. I was quite prepared for the next expansion (ready to profit!), and I still can't wait for all of the Dota heroes to get added in multiple and various re-iterations. Valve put MANY free modes in the game, and although I eventually got a complete collection over time, I actually play the free Phantom Draft %90 of the time. It is fun and free, what's not to like? There are nice friend features, tournaments, and many other little things that were well done. I look forward to whatever they do with it from here.
As to the financial cost, I played Magic the Gathering for years, and I've played Hearthstone for years as well, sinking more than reasonable amounts of money into both of those games than I ever intended. Rng card packs, Three $70 expansions a year, or grind, grind, grind, dailies, grind, grind, grind, dailies etc etc. At the time of writing this, it cost less than $10 to get all of the Black cards in existence, and less or around $20 for any other colour. The market took a bit to settle, but friends and free modes were there till they did. I know several friends who made money on this system. I would hope that some kind of regional version of the game could get put out though....
In it for the long Haul!  o7
The game itself is amazing; hugely intellectual, with a ton of fun. The current player base is highly competitive and competent wich is also nice.
Valve's business decisions, including the marketing of the product, the applied monetization model next to the current market trends among the consumers, and the executed rollout plan of the game? Nah.
The story of artifact('s first few months?) will become a negative example in the textbooks, about how to screw up with a perfect product in your hands.
However If valve fixes the current issues in the game (like fixing the incentives of a player driven by the current rewarding system and the current competitive system) there is a huge potential in the game.
So all in all; impressive job from the game designers and the developers, and aggravatingly bad decisions from the business area.
This is a great game. Having played a lot of cards games, the game play mechanics seem to be the best components of all other existing cards games. The resources are "ramped" so there is no possibility of getting shorted when you need to play a card, play is passed back and forth similar to priority in Magic, so there are no long player turns to wait for, and combat happens for both players simultaneously. Overall, I think this is a great game design.
To those complaining about micro-transactions, you don't have to spend extra money to enjoy the game. Phantom draft is free and it is what I spend most of my time playing, despite having all the cards for constructed play.
A well balanced and well built game that unfortunately came under fire to a flood of unfounded negative reviews.
People complaining that you have yo buy cards(you don't. You get starter packs and earn more packs as you play.)
Complaining that this game isn't Half life 3 (seriously, grow up)
Last but not least many reviews saying the game is good but giving it a thumbs down anyway.
None of these are deserved.
Pros:
- The gameplay itself is good
- Nice graphics
Cons:
- Based on too much luck (Creep & Hero placement, bounty hunter attack, Ogre Magi)
- Not so much tactical depth (but more than in other card games)
- No replay mode
- Hardly any community features (eg Regional play vs players in / near your city would be nice)
- Some overpowered heros / cards (cards should be better balanced because otherwise draw-luck decide games)
- Direction-cards (bad)luck (proposal: let assign the direction-cards by the player)
After 110 hours of playtime, I can say:
"This game is a waste of time and money."
Yes I own all cards,
Yes I tried various technics.
Yes i played other card games.
DO NOT BUY - I did that mistake !
[h1]Valve got greedy.[/h1]
Apparently Valve forgot everything they learned from TF2, CS:GO and Dota2. Making fun games fully accessible to everyone. Online games without players and communities are destined to fail.
[b]But... Nope.[/b] Valve decides to exclude 90% of the World.
[list]
[*] Pay for the game.
[*] Pay for cards to play the game, making the best cards the rarest and therefore most expensive. (when they said power level wouldn't be related to rarity)
[*] Pay to enter prize modes.
[*] Take a % cut of prize mode entry fees.
[*] Make a Trading Card Game where you can't trade. You can only buy and sell on their market, while taking a 15%+ cut. Sell a card for $0.03, get $0.01.
[*] Slowly inject cards behind a weekly time-gate to ensure the market decays, making it impossible to break even in prize modes.
[/list]
There's so many things they could charge for that don't affect gameplay. People love hats.
Why not charge for: different imps, hats for imps, different card fronts/backs, different boards, animations, dyes for cosmetics and features (river color), props like trees/flowers/dota2 heroes to decorate/place and make unique boards, chatwheels, emotes, and everything else you did in your other successful games.
[h1]The game isn't fun.[/h1]
This is supposed to be the best card game possible? They had complete design freedom to do anything they wanted on a digital only platform with a 3D game engine. And they made 3D versions of 2D cards with static art... They literally have 3D models, animations, and cosmetic systems to work with for every hero from Dota 2.
The gameplay is essentially completely reactive and plagued due to RNG at every step. It's not complex with the current card set and it's nothing like Chess where the initial state and immediate possible moves can be determined by a human skill level.
[list]
[*] Random initial placement of heroes and creeps
[*] Random card draws
[*] Random creep deployment every round
[*] Random attack directions
[*] Random draw of which item from your list you get to purchase during the shopping phase
[*] Random secret shop item and consumable item during the shopping phase, different for each player.
[*] Random card procs (Bounty Hunter, Ogre, etc)
[*] Randomness of card actives (Chainfrost, Eclipse)
[/list]
Is it possible for a better/perfect player to win 100% of the time? [b]No.[/b]
[b]The game just isn't complete.[/b] There have been a few features added since the game released, but they just aren't good enough.
[list]
[*] The chat interface is terrible. You can only chat by bringing up chat wheels. No chat log/box. Really, how hard would it be to have a chat box like your other 3 main games? Add an option to disable the chat box if you get butt-hurt by social interactions and can't handle it.
[*] No voice comms (with a disable option)
[*] Once a game is over, that's it. No replay, no stats, no game history, can't even tell who you just played against. Literally the only thing you can do once a game ends is immediately add them as a Steam Friend to chat... Any other game you've ever played is basically like it never existed.
[*] Progession system: Earn levels mainly dictated by a weekly time-gate to unlock a bunch of Icons.
[*] Ranking system: How can you tell if someone is good? You can't. There's a 1-75 rank bin it puts you in based on your hidden MMR, but it's essentially meaningless. You can't even see your opponents rank level! You can only see their Icon level which is basically just a measure of how much they play.
[*] No matchmaking leaderboards. (Featured mode win streaks leaderboard is useless)
[*] No unranked global matchmaking mode. Want to test some really bad ideas out? Play against a bot or else it's counting towards your hidden MMR.
[*] No demo mode. Want to try out cards you don't own? You can play against a bot that uses them, but you can't use them yourself.
[*] No anything profile related that you expect as standard after playing other Valve games.
[*] Basically, the only thing you can see about other people playing the game is their name and icon level in your current match only. (Or the dwindling concurrent user count online)
Because the game isn't inherently fun for the average person, there is no incentive to play. Valve's only option is to finish the game, make it more fun, more complete, and then relaunch as Free2Play without any paywalls so the other 90% of the world can try it out and create a better community. No players = no game.
Also, what about the $1,000,000 first place Artifact tournament scheduled for Q1 2019? When you consider the time it takes to announce and run qualifiers, and for players to secure their Visa's and schedule travel. There's only 2 possible options.
[olist]
[*] The 1st tournament is invite only and the invite only players are already decided, and Valve isn't telling us.
[*] The tournament is cancelled/postponed, and Valve isn't telling us.
[/olist]
+okay mechanics
+expands on Dota2 Lore
-filled with microtransactions in a 20$ game
-unrealistic prices
-pretty fucking boring
-cash grab 20$ for a shit show
-i tried to refund but i couldn't
Don't buy, Valve forgot who they are
Congratulations new player! Here are 5 card packs that won't make any difference because you basicly had nothing interesting to combine them with anyways. Oh there comes your opponent! Someone 20 times your level because; well, there are no starting players for you to play with.
Enjoy getting wrecked until you pay more :)
I have 2 accounts of artifact with a total of around 500hrs for both accounts. I find this game very fun and addictive but there are many flaws in this game that makes me very angry.
As it is right now, I would not recommend this game for these 4 main reasons .
Problem 1: If you ever play DOTA, you know how important a TP scroll is. Well someone forgot to tell valve this because you can be stuck the whole game and not be able to buy a  TP scroll even with with 1 Billion Gold.
Why can't you buy a tp scroll you ask? Well someone decided to make it appear randomly in the shop so if i doesn't appear you can't buy it even with all the gold in the world.   And you basically lose the game. Stupid? Yes.
Solution 1:  Make the TP scrolls non random by allowing players to buy it every 2 turns.
Problem 2: In DOTA, creeps waves spawn in every lane which makes sense. Unlike this game, creeps appear randomly and if they don't spawn in your lane, well u basically lose. Which makes no sense.
Solution 2: Make creeps spawn evenly in each lane.
Problem 3: The chat mechanic in this game is so bad. There is 0 general /guild chat room. Talking to your opponent is so hard and annoying it's not even worth it.
Solution 3:  Make a general/guild chat room so when people log in, they can chat. Also make chatting easier for players during game play so they can communicate with their opponent and have ignore option as well in case the opponents are rude.
Problem 4: There is no leaderboard or ladder ranking system for competition and rewards, aside from just gaining levels.
Solution 4: Have a player ranking play system, so players who climb the ladder will have greater rewards and recognition than those who are on the lower rank.
I don't recommend this game for the following reasons:
1. Silly economy.
The description "pay to pay to play" pretty much sums it up. The game is not free to play, yet expects people who are interested in prize play to constantly pay for tickets... AND pay for cards on the market on top of all that? Very much feels like they're trying to have the cake and eat it, too.
2. Lack of a progression system.
They more or less tried to fix this with a rushed leveling system... but it's far too slow and far too unrewarding to incentivize staying in this mess of a game.
3. The game itself.
All of the above might not be that bad, if the game was awesome. After all, abusive business models in digital CCGs are pretty much a given nowadays (unfortunately)... But it's just not that good. The gameplay is unintuitive for newcomers, full of infuriating randomness (I'll say it: much more so than even Hearthstone.) and just feels clunky overall. The three lane thing might have been a neat idea in terms of translating the DOTA feel to a card game, but it doesn't seem to bring all that much depth to the table, in my opinion. It's just a BO3 in which all matches are played simultaneously. What you're left with is a game of trying to stack more numbers on your side of the board. Boring.
4. Valve's silence.
I know that's just the Valve way and all that, but maybe that approach just doesn't cut it anymore in 2019. Considering the magnitude of the trainwreck, some more info on what they're actually attempting here might have gone a long way in helping people trust that betterment is on the way. Personally, I have given up and sold all my cards already, with a lesson learned to not believe the hype of big names.
I'm not happy to write this review, the game is good and well made, every cards has his lore and voice acting, the three boards mechanics is not so complicated and you can master it after a couple of hours (the time you need to practice with the most common cards).
What is wrong with this game is the microtransaction system, if you want to build your deck you need to pay, there is no trading with friends or other people but right now the cards are very cheap on the market (because the game is dead), but let me say that if you want to play for fun with pre-build decks you can for free.
What is more wrong with this game is Valve, they killed the game after two months, last update was at the end of January and right now there is no info about the future of the game, they also fired RG and other members of the team.
The game is dead and Valve killed it since start.
There is rumors out there that maybe it will become free to play "in a few months", i will not talk about this rumor because is a rumor, i don't want rumors from a 4Chan user, i want an official statement from Valve.
The game is dead and Valve killed it.
(ok, ok, there is other 99 wrong things but who cares, the game is dead and Valve killed it.)
Great Game, too bad it's a dead game with no future, even Dota Auto Chess has more hope than this.
Yes I do own all the cards (roughly 250+ euro wasted)
Since November 2018 they didn't bother to improve and with the very few people playing it, there is no hope for a future expansion. (I mean who would like to spend 200+ euro for another set, I might be stupid but not that stupid)
I mean it has like 50 views on twitch....
Even if you can overlook all the issues with how the game handles cards & microtransactions, a rapidly falling playerbase, a lack of meaningful progression, and its general poor launch - at it's core, Artifact's gameplay is an unsatisfying chore.
There are very few times playing the game where random chance plays a small enough element for the average player to make a significant outplay, or carry out a game-long strategy outside of the premade 7+ mana game ending cards. The game includes a random element at each stage of gameplay - creep random lane spawns, attack direction arrows randomly generating, random card draw from your relatively large deck, random shop items each turn. This in my opinion leads to the vast majority of games being decided by which player draws the right random chance at a critical moment, rather than which player predicts the play of an enemy and plans around it.
Sometimes all you needed to win a lost game was 1 card the whole game, a tp scroll to change a heroes lane after getting it deployed in a bad matchup for example, but the shop does not have a standard set of items, so you're out of luck. While winning, games feel very straightforward - you draw the right cards once or twice, and the game ends, in spite of losing your heroes over and over, or many misplays along the way. There is no clear path to victory without a good measure of luck, which makes a lot of your wins feel hollow and almost out of your hands.
Having said all that, the visual and audio design are fantastic, with a sleek menu system in the style of Dota, and an incredible amount of voiced lines for each card. There is clear effort and care taken with every part of the game, which only makes me more disappointed at how much of a near miss this game was. I do not see a way for this game to see a meaningful revival in playerbase outside of a complete overhaul and rerelease of a lot of the core gameplay and monetization, and even that could be a roll of the dice.
My favorite card game I have ever played. Sadly, I cannot give it a positive review in its current state. Microtransactions, P2W, (However I will say it is the cheapest card game in terms of purchasing a full collection) lack of updates/commucation from Valve, and lack of playerbase=unfair ranked MM.
Until a roadmap is released, or the game is overhauled and updated completely with cosmetics, daily quests, and a revamped ladder system, this review will remain negative.
Much more than just a bad game: this is definitive proof that Valve's corporate culture and flat hierarchy are failed experiments.
You were once capable of greatness, Valve. You can't just keep buying projects that are already successful, chewing the teams up and spitting them out after they release a single product with your logo on it.
Reorganize your company, re-hire the people with creative vision, and make real games again, please.
As a longtime CCG player, I've experienced a lot of games.  Been decent at a few... not pro level but could follow a meta and win a local tourney or two.  Magic, Star Wars (the original) CCG, LOTR, Hearthstone, Eternal CCG.  All had/have flaws, but I don't regret any of them.
I regret Artifact.  It kills me but I do.
Never in my time playing card games has a collectable game been so... unfun.  I read the hype about how it was designed by Garfield, was made to be an extremely competitive and cerebral game, and it sold me.  I would have tried it had the reviews been entirely negative, because I would have rationalize those people just weren't ready for a competitive card game.  Man was I wrong.  And I'm not even sure WHY I was wrong... it just isn't good.  It may be extremely tactical, and for all I know at the very top level of play it's the greatest game ever.  But for us average to even "good" players?  Horrendous.
The three lane concept is cute but ultimately unrewarding and extremely frustrating.  Part of the joy of playing these games is the cards, and Artifact uniquely is designed to prevent that.  Crucial moment in a lane?  The enemy can kill/silence your hero and prevent the play of that entire color of card.  Tactical?  Sure.  Fun?  Absolutely not, its awful.  I've played vintage through standard magic extensively, the mind games are not new.   What is new is the sheer amount of ways to prevent cards from being played.  Not countered, or nullified via clever play.  Stuck in your hand, useless, for extended periods.  Add this to the fact that the game is extremely long and tedious (single games can take an extended amount of time), and it really isnt any fun to play at all.
Flavorwise?  None.  Like dry toast left in the rain.  The cards, the characters, the mechanics... its painful to even look at.  How do you enjoy a game when everything from the art to the style of interaction is so dry?  I can't do it, I'm sorry.
I really get the sense that the entire focus of the game, from A to Z, was twitch streamers.  Somebody thought this would be a great E-Sports game.  They lost sight of the idea that E-Sports games require an audience that gives a crap, and from my experience and the reviews I've read I don't think anyone will in a year.  A painful flop, that I really didn't want to be a flop.
If it's still around in a year, read the current reviews and see if they've fixed anything.  But I doubt it.  I think this one is stillborn, sadly.
THIS GAME IS A TRAP.
Valve have taken over 4 months to address any problems with the game, and refuse to communicate with the community about the issues they have because they believe themselves to be so enigmatic and infallible that they don't believe that they need to actually consider what their rapidly shrinking community needs from them in order to fix their game that they dramatically over-promised and under-delivered with. Artifact is, in fact, hilariously emblematic of the core problem with what Valve has turned into since they enjoyed a modicum of success, in that Valve is so fixated on the idea that they AND ONLY THEY are the authority on what makes a good game and what does that they failed to even listen to their own HAND PICKED BETA TESTERS, most of whom had been playing other online CCGs professionally and/or had a significant amount of expertise in DESIGNING THEM. They completely ignored the numerous warnings and reports from their Beta testers, which was clearly a huge mistake because many of the problems plaguing Artifact right now are ones we have evidence of not only EXISTING, but, in fact, HAVING BEEN REPORTED TO VALVE MONTHS IN F*CKING ADVANCE during the beta period! Which means that the period of time before official launch that some players were allowed access to the game WASNT EVEN A BETA PERIOD! They weren't employed to TEST the game, they were employed to SELL the game! THAT is why they were large-audience streamers and personalities, not because of their expertise, but because Valve wanted to exploit their influence for next-to-free advertisement, which is an apropos display of the exploitative and lazy behavior that put Artifact in the ground in the first place.
The most awful thing, however, is that all of these things would be excusable if Valve gave any indication whatsoever that they actually gave a crap about the quality of their game. In truth, Artifact is the clearest example of bait-and-switch that I've ever seen. Valve sold the game on the premise of competitive support and tournaments and events and regular content patches, and then when people purchased their product, they wordlessly abandoned it and their audience along with it. At the time of writing, the most recent "official" Artifact update is from December 20th, 2019. That's over TWO MONTHS AGO, which is HALF THE ENTIRE LIFETIME OF THE F*CKING GAME.
Artifact has revealed a level of systemic unprofessionalism within Valve that I sincerely hope will haunt them for the remainder of their tenure as a developer. Although, I suppose they aren't really a developer anymore, are they. Developers care about their product. Valve has gotten so used to merely selling the hard work of other people and taking a slice of the pie that they've forgotten what it means to make and maintain a product of their own.
Without spending money, or using Tickets (which cost money) it is impossible to acquire new cards. So you start out, open your ten card packs, and those are the only cards you'll ever have for the rest of the game. Because there's no progression system of any kind, there's no real reason to play the game. It's like a real world TCG, but without any of the social aspects, nor the actual ownership of physical cards.
I wouldn't recommend this game to literally anyone.
As much as I like this game, it is not recommendable right now. It's just impossible for new players to get into this game, because the playerbase is so tiny that you just get matched with very experienced players in normal games right from the start. And don't forget the ticket gauntlets, where you can obtain tickets and packs through winning streaks with constructed and draft - nope not possible, there is an elite group of players farming these all day, so you will never have a chance as a low tier or mid tier player if you don't wanna spend money for a complete deck right off the bat.
As a "mid tier" player, it's just boring either way, and i can relate to the frustration that new players must have - that's the reason why this game is literally dead and has no real hope to start a comeback. If they won't decide to break down the initial money wall that prevents casuals from playing this for free, sadly I can't see this game getting a second chance on the market, and it seems like Valve doesn't even care anyway anymore (last update went live in december).
It just can't compete with other titles that are out there for free, and has nothing very special or exciting to draw new players to this in fact really really fun game. It's a shame this good idea of a ccg went down just because of the poor marketing decisions.
Calculations about why people are leaving this game
Here are some calculations about expected return of Expert Draft/Constructed mode.
Assume an average player who's got 50% win rate, here's how much he is expected to get after a Expert Draft/Constructed run:
expected return = C(1,4)*(1/2^5)*7 + C(1,5)*(1/2^6)*(7+14) + (0.5^5 + C(1,5)*(1/2^6) )*(7+14*2) = 6.34375
So, average players' expected return rate is:
(6.34375 - 7）/ 7 = -9.43%
Explanation:
I use rmb as currency, which is 7 rmb for 1 ticket, 14 rmb for 1 card pack. But it doesn't matter what currency you use, we are calculating a ratio here.
C(1,4) means choose 1 out of 4, the same applies for C(1,5) which means choose 1 out of 5.
C(1,4)*(1/2^5)*7 is the expected return of 3 wins.
C(1,5)*(1/2^6)*(7+14) is the expected return of 4 wins.
(0.5^5 + C(1,5)*(1/2^6) )*(7+14*2) is the expected return of 5 win (with 0 lose or 1 lose).
Conclusion:
So, average players with 50% win rate is expected to LOSE 9.43% of his money each time they play an Expert Draft/Constructed game. This is astonishing and unacceptable. This is the only negative sum game that I know of (except lottery and gambling ). But Valve, you are a game company, not casino.
What's even worse is, when average players and below-average players find themselves constantly losing money, they just leave the game. That's what happened in the last 2 weeks. And with daily peak concurrent players of Artifact drops to around 10k, that means more than 80% of players have left the game. When that happens, those above-average players' win rate drops to 50% or below and starts to lose money. Then they will also leave the game. Things are getting worse day by day. Only the few top players will get positive expected returns. It's kind of like the poison circle in Player Unknown's battleground.
If there's no substantial change to this, daily peak concurrent players of Artifact will drop below 10k in the following few days.
I love the core mechanics of the game, and have spent more than dozens of Expert mode tickets. And I don't care about if it's F2P or not. But this Expert mode is just broken, because it keeps punishing players of the game until they just leave. I think Artifact has a huge potential but it's simply ruined by the arrogance of the people in Valve who ignore the urgent call of the players who actually pay for the game.
Game feels dead after a while with no progression unless u pay. Not sure why it was priced so high just to purchase the game when you can't have fun unless you pay more
This game is an actual disease; it's designed to appeal to those with addictive personalities and to slowly drain their bank accounts of every last cent just for a few good cards. It is absolutely horrifying to see Valve adopt such a shitty sales model for a game; if you are going to release a card game, don't charge for the fucking game and then charge for the cards as well, it's one or the other.
Also, the tutorial is a facade, you do not own all the cards you play in the tutorial or all the cards in the prebuilt decks, you can't edit the prebuilt decks for this reason, and you only obtain a few of these cards after you open your starter packs, immediately disqualifying you from a refund, this game is designed to trap you in and take your money.
The game is fun. Games take some time, like 20ish++ minutes a match.
In my opinion, the most important aspect for complexity in these type of games comes from the possibility of being able to interact/disrupt your opponent. Hearthstone doesn't have any of it except for its Secret mechanic while Magic and Yu-Gi-Oh allow you to play cards in the middle of the opponents turn. Artifact, much like Gwent, takes a middle-road of sorts in where each of you play a single card in turns. This, by itself, gives it already a lot more design space for complexity than many other games of this genre.
Then there is also the game-design by itself which is simply pure genius, and honestly really refreshing compared to what else is out there. If you're looking into buying this game, and actually reading a review, I'm sure you're already aware of how it functions. There are a lot of small decisions to make that ultimately amount to your victory or lose and a lot of cool cards that allow for diverse playstyles. Concepts like pass bluffing and manipulating initiative are important. So is deciding to abandon a lane or purposefully keeping an enemy hero (in draft, which has limited mobility options) alive to lock him out of the game. It's just immense and you really have to take a step back and think about the overall situation rather than blindly following your simple game-plan.
Then there is the RNG, with the advent of digital CCG/TCG there comes a myriad of advantages that just weren't possible in a physical format. Such as changing existing cards. One of such possibilities is the inclusion of RNG-esque things. The main-three RNG elements are the card-draw, the item-market, and the direction of your creeps and heroes attack - which can be manipulated. Those are all fine and fundamentally balanced parts of the game. But then there are some really heavy RNG cards. My personal rule of thumb is: Can this card more-or-less single-handedly win you the game, even if it's just a miniscule chance? If so, bad RNG. There are some cards like that in the game. Like Cheating Death which turns the death of your units into a coin-flip. Every. Single. Time. (Imagine doing that in reality, takes a while)
Compared to the most famous digital CCG, Hearthstone, the amount of such RNG-centric cards are really just miniscule. BUT they give an insight into the design philosophy of the future of the game. Essentially, it's not impossible for more of such cards to be printed and, sooner or later, they add up. An example of this would be the digital CCG Shadowverse. Which, at its release, only had a single relevant card of 'target a random enemy and deal 1 damage'. This was years ago. Now, after many expansions? There is a whole lot more.
Despite all the praise and fun I have with Artifact, I have to give the game a negative review, however. Why? Because of the pricing policy Valve is displaying and thus, by extension, that they care more about profit than their consumers.
Just for the record, I despise an f2p experience like Hearthstone, too. Blizzard designed the game in a way that, unless you spend actual money, you progress really really slow or have to invest insane amounts of time. If I had to name my ideal f2p experience it would be Shadowverse or Gwent. My ideal digital CCG experience would look like something akin to a monthly subscription with card-progression that isn't designed to get you to spend more money.
I also want to mention that it's theoretically possible to increase your collection without spending more money. By winning 4 games in a draft you get your ticket back and a card pack. And this possibility is what made me ultimately buy the game.
Now, with all that out the way. Their pricing policy. I am not talking about being able to 'only' buy more packs with actual money. I'm talking about the cut they take from selling cards on the steam market. You already pay money to receive the cards in the first place. Valve made their profit. But they want more. Because more profit is good, but it costs the consumer.  Capitalism, ho! What will this bring for the future? Nothing good.
It's sad to see a company that used to make games(lol) now 100% exploits it as a business opportunity.
An excellent card game, flawed by a terrible monetization scheme. The gameplay and the mechanics are really good, which adds a breathe of fresh air to the genre, and the overall experience of the game itself. But the shady microtransaction practices prevent me to recommend it. The price of the purchase is not enough to fully enjoy it. You will need to spend more money to stay competitive, otherwise you'll be bound to the Draft Mode which at the moment doesn't have any progression system whatsoever, and doesn't allow to earn free cards. In fact, you can't earn free cards at all. Other similar games have login bonuses, dailies, weeklys, and many more mechanics to stay somewhat competitive even without paying anything more. With your purchase, only half of the game is available to you without paying more money. And this for me, is unacceptable. Unless something changes, at the moment, I don't recommend playing this game at all.
Valve is a multi-billion dollar company that loves money first and foremost.  Players are absolutely not the priority here.  Wrap you head around that fact before proceeding to read my scathing review.
Save yourself the headache.  Valve completely ruined a game that had tremendous potential.  I entered the game skeptical, I gave it every chance imaginable, I listened to all the people that defended the game in order to gain perspective, and ultimately I've concluded that this is one of the worst games on the market to date.
What makes it so bad compared to other horrendous games?  The wasted potential and blatant attempt to cash grab its players with no regard for the game itself.  This is a service to designed to make money.  It's not designed for player fulfillment.
It does almost everything wrong once you go deeper than the surface level animations and game concept.  The cards are unbalanced yet overpowered cards can never be nerfed due to the egregious economic model.  The poorly designed card pool leads to spikes of disappointment throughout the gameplay.  The market economy is so badly botched that this alone ruins the entire game and demolishes any hope of future potential being realized.
I've experienced gameplay bugs that caused me to lose a few games, and this isn't even considered a major problem to me because of the other glaring issues with the game.  You read that correctly:  Game breaking bugs that cause a player to lose a game that they had to pay a ticket to enter isn't even a top concern for me at this point.
The community is destroyed due to all the aforementioned issues.  If someone wants to make sound critiques, then they are perceived by many to be overly negative.  If someone compliments the game, then they are perceived by many to be delusional.  There is no way for a community like this to grow.  The fact is that the issues, at their core, stem from Valve's greed, which the player base cannot fix or control.
Throw this game in the trash can.  It is beyond repair.
What about Valve's reputation with other games?  Valve got lucky.  They managed to find a way to syphon money from their players in the other games without causing too much damage to the game itself.  Their attempt to syphon as much money as possible from would-be Artifact players has actually ruined the game at its core.
Artifact is such a blatant misuse of a good concept that I'm considering programming my own version of this game because of how much wasted potential there is.
I've have been using steam for 10 years and this is the first product I feel have really tried to screw me with its marketing and information when bying the product.
The tutorial felt good and were well done. The gameplay seems intresting. I open my 5 packs packs and think OK now I'm gonna get into this! I test out a couple of bot matches to realize that they give 0 xp of progression. Ok, well then I'll try test my newly aquired skills against som fellow players. Getting matched with only people 15-25 lvls higher then me. The turn timer is really short and stressful. And of course I do lose since i dont have any cards. Well thats learning the hard way I guess. No hard feelings. But...
Losing games have rewarded me with between 8-16 xp. You need 500 to level up to level 2 which grant you the 1st reward that I have already PAID for. So I have to lose ~40 matches to get my first already PAID for pack? WTF... One match is at least 15 min. So to progress as a newbie I have to spend around 10h losing against people that are 20 lvls higher than me to get my first tiny pack that I have paid for. I have purchased a lot of Early access titles and those are a bit of a gamble. But they mostly lacking gameplay or have a little more bugs than usual. Thats what you expect. But bying an premium title from no other company than Valve with the marketing of unlocking most of the things I paid for being force to spend countless of hours of scewed gameplay (you need lvl 16 to unlock all pre paid rewards). THAT'S JUST HOAX.
Most normal companies have pre paid content unlocked through the tutorial/getting familiar with the client. To get he things I've paid for in this title I have to switch to full Vanilla WoW grind. The is unacceptable.
I'm VERY disappointed. No other game with forced gameplay to unlock PAID content expect you to grind 100+ hours. That is nothing but a scam. I have to WORK for what I have already PAID for. I have better things to do. You are prompted to open the packs after the tutorial so no refund is available. That is NOT the problem. The problem is HOAX marketing. I have never run into another game that have pre paid content unlocked by 100+ hours of scewed matchmaking losing to unlock your stuff. Get yourself together Valve. This is not only silly, but a VERY unserious way of selling and marketing your products.
This game has so much potential but in its current state is not fun. The fundamentals of a good game are there - this game takes a lot of strategy to play well. The presentation is also great - card art and sounds are top notch. The number one issue with this game is progression. Unless you pay money, there really is no sense of progression in this game. Sure, Valve added a barebones progression system in a recent patch but it's laugable how poorly that was implemented. If you're on the fence about this game, do not buy it now. Valve will likely fix several shortcomings with future patches and expansions so at some point this game will be worth buying.
Dead on Arrival game that does little to change or forward the genre. Really wish the game was not a CCG and instead had a fixed cost for packs with some changed mechanics to reduce RNG.
This is one of the most fun games I've EVER played, super addicting, but the systems in play are f---ing horrible.
Pros:
- Great gameplay, addicting
- Barely feel 'helpless' and that there's always outplay because of the unique gameplay
- Represents Dota as a card game well (I have 4k hours in D2)
- Great unit interactions (like in Dota 2)
- No rigid 'objectively best' deck, lot of variation and RNG involved in determining what decks will control momentum.
- Seems relatively* balanced in my experience? I've played many multi-colour decks that I thought were powerful.
Cons:
- Terrible social features, non-descriptive and basically not there. (e.g. You can't add your opponents in-game.)
- No in-game viewer for Pro-games (like in Dota 2)
- No progression system whatsoever
- No ranked/ladder, it's basically the wild west in non-expert constructed. One game is against whales (Modify Player with Big Credit Card), and another is against someone who is running 4 colour.
- Terrible monetisation, you're basically stuck in a 'Expert Loop' where you're basically going to go 3-2 (T H R E E  H O U R S  W A S T E D) most of the time and get perfect runs only if you get insanely lucky on Draft, or lucked out on your free packs so you have good items and heroes to beat the crap out of people in Constructed. And guess what, if you run out of tickets you better hit the market place to buy 20 cheap cards that cost slightly less than a dollar, it's better than how they force you to buy tickets in sets of 5 for 5 dollars.
Rant Section - Suggestions & Frustrations (feel free to skip):
If I had to sum it up, the only people who plugging the hell out of this game are streamers and people willing to play by the 'real card game economy' type structure because they believe that it works, because they have enough extraneous money to just not give a damn about it. Yes, if card packs were easier to get, card value inevitably goes down, and that would destroy the ticket system. But you know what? If this game had /DAILY QUESTS/ that gave you ONE ticket per day it would not destroy the economy, you know why? Because you still have to buy in to this game. You still have to win the 4/5 games in Expert to get card packs, and honestly based on the way most people who aren't 500 IQ players goes, it's not going to affect the market severely. Sure, some rarer cards might go down, but cards will always be worth something *because* of the ticket system. And the fact that people can't grind alts or throw games by multi-boxing means that a lot of the problems of f2p card games goes away.
"You're just mad because you're bad" - Calling out Reddit/Steam Forums:
There's honest criticism to be given to this game, because it's a great game, but plagued by terrible decisions. Honest conversation can only be had when people who are paying out the arse for this game shut the hell up and actually understand that not all experiences will be the same. They make tonnes of money from this shit, you don't need to defend them. Especially when they're driving away people who you KNOW would love this game if not for the horrible model and [lack of] systems.
Also the tutorial explains things, but they should have like a card ruleset or something
Ending Statement:
I don't give a shit what 'real life card game economies' are like, Credit Cardifact is going to drive away players, Influencers and streamers are doing them a favour by being able to avoid criticising monetisation, seeing as they already have a shit tonne of money since they're not advertising it for money but because they know the game is fun. Valve won't back down from drawing people into a game because they think they can 'profit by playing', but people should at least know it's pretty unrealistic to just farm packs out the ass unless they shell out for a solid Expert Constructed deck.
TL;DR - Best card game, terrible monetisation, non-existent Quality of Life, no quests or sense of progression.
Why the hell did you think about an economy first and player experience (outside of matches) second?
Too mentally draining to the point of not being fun.  There are better, more exciting card games to play.  The free dota mod "dota auto chess" is basically a better card game than this.
Needless to say, do not buy this game.
In spite of the incestious ethically questionable marketing, the game failed to gain an audience at launch. The gameplay is so random, you can't tell if you are playing the game, or the game is playing you. Majority of the events that happen in a game are decided by RNG. The game was designed this way to make each game feel grand in scale while keeping player input to a minimum. Playing against someone feels like a competition in taking a picture with a dozen cats. Your input is there, but the cats decide in the end.
Playing the game is such a chore, the it lost 99% of its player base in two months. This had quite an impact on the market that Valve had such high hopes for.
On the topic of Valve, they abandoned this project at the first sign of trouble.
It's a dead game, abandoned by its players and developers. I would only recommend buying this game if you are really intersted in game design and want to see what not to do.
This is going to be a long and lengthy review, but before I start I want to give myself some credibility.
First of all, I have never played dota 2, so I am in no position to comment on the lore/truthfulness to the game/etc.
However, I consider myself a hardcore TCG/CCG player, I've top 100'd in hearthstone 8 months in a row, I played MTG for 15+ years and top 8'd many ptqs and gps, I won the champion cup in shadowverse, and in general I play a LOT of card games, and tend to do well in them.
That being said I think I am in a good position to critique this game.
First of all, the graphics:
This has got to be one of the best looking card games I've seen in my life. Every card has it's own voice, lore, and is rendered wonderfully, the board, hands, and little devil-sprites (I'm sure they have a name) are fantastic looking. In my books the graphics are 10/10.
Second, HUD:
The HUD menu out-of-game is a little unintuitive, some buttons are placed in weird places, opening or editing your decks requires you to "load" them (instead of all your decks being listed, you have to hit a "load" button and then "save" when you're done), deckbuilding is ok-ish. Your deck is a list of card names, you drag other cards from a list (your collection) unto your deck (another list). I would've liked to see some kind of binder or catalogue where either the deck, or the collection is spread out with full size cards instead of just a "name" in text that you have to click on to find out what the card does. In game HUD, again, looks fantastic, but sometimes when the opponent takes a while on their turn there's nothing to do (in hearthstone you can click the environment, in MTGarena, shadowverse, and others your mouse has particle effects that you can draw with) - not really a big deal to be fair, I'm just being anal. There's also always a card pack floating in the "buy packs" screen, this card pack shows whether or not you have a pack, which get's a bit confusing because the game makes it look like I have an unopened card park in my collection.
Next and the most important aspect of the game - what to do:
Unfortunetly there isn't much to do outside of playing the game. There is no ranked mode, there is no leaderboard, there is no rewards of any kind, no in-game currency, no profile icons, no cardbacks, no new voicepacks/game tables, no rank beside your profile, no progression of ANY KIND. If you play a game and win, what do you win? Nothing. Play and lose, nothing. In effect there is no grind, no climb, and overall this is the ONE thing that keeps me from recommending this game to people. This encourages players to play wacky/stupid decks instead of competetive decks, which is fun for those players, but not for players who want to win. The one "competetive" game mode in the game consists of spending a ticket (a currency) to enter an "expert tournament" - A gamemode that ends when you lose twice, and has rewards for up to a maximum of 5 wins, which is a grand prize of a ticket and TWO packs. Yes that's right, TWO packs.
If you're the best player in the entire game you have to grind out this boring "tournament" for two packs, which is redundant for two reasons, first of all, the cards in this game are very limited (as of now) and you can effectively buy 3 of every card in the game for $30 thanks to the in-game market (you can buy and sell cards, however 95% of the cards sell for $0.02). This means that it's cheaper to buy your decks that open a bunch of packs to get the cards, and second, you get prettymuch 90% of the cards in the game from opening around 20-30 packs ($50), since only about half the cards are playable, packs become useless (especially 2 as a grand prize) and most people will just buy other players' excess cards for cents. This results in the game's "expert tournament", a mode where you pay 1 ticket, and if you WIN ALL YOUR GAMES, you get back 1 ticket, and 2 packs, being completely unsatisfying.
I would like to see the wins extended to 8 or even 12, and bigger prizes.
Next, I want to explain something to all of you, in any given card game, there are what are called "whales", these players make up 0.5%-1.5% of the playerbase but account for 50% of the revenue for card games.
I want to bring this up because there is something missing from this game. Foils.
"Premium", "Foil", "Animated", or "Golden" cards are animated or holographic versions of cards that are hard to obtain. Players like me want a fully foil deck - and we are willing to pay for it. If valve implements Foils into the game, the "whales" will spend A LOT MORE MONEY on packs trying to get foils, the community will open a lot more packs trying to get expensive $100 foils that they can sell on the marketplace, there is FINANCIAL reasons to add foils, but also it makes opening packs much more exciting! Casual players will gamble because there's a chance to get big money, and packs will suddenly become appealing, because again, after spending about $40 you own every card in the game, and card packs become useless.
I wanted to talk about gameplay but I feel I've rambled on too much. If you're still reading this by now, this game needs a way to progress, so a win FEELS like a win, a ranked system - with monthly or yearly rewards, an esports scene, a profile that you can show off, a way to communicate in the game, and a way of determining who the best is, and ofcourse, FOILS.
Until any of these are implemented I cannot recommend this game with good concious.
I enjoy the game but it has been abandoned by valve. No word from them other than "in it for the long haul." Yea fuckin right. If/when they actually bother to improve the game I'll update the review.
Famous quote: "When people in beta complained about Drow being OP, Valve didn't nerf her. Instead, they changed her rarity from uncommon to rare."
My dear reader, have patience and let me tell you all the truth about Shartifact, truly a unqiue game full of hype and fan anticipation (ok?)...
Artifuck is a game with awesome balance. More than half of the cards are completely worthless, some of them being straight up terrible in every possible situation being completely outclassed by others. (Some of them are also entirely outclassed by items everyone can buy, so no niche color specific mechanics hehehe). You would think a basic introductionary set of cards consisting almost entirely of raw stat buffs would be easy to balance... oh no! That is of course not true, it's intended as the creator of this awesome game is no other than the TCG GOD himself, Richard Garfield, with his genious philosophy of:
"People who play with the bad cards are stupid because they haven't figured out which are the good ones.".
So yes, having filler worthless cards to fill up a booster box is of course something very valuable to have in a digital card game. Artifatfuck is exactly that, a very close emulation of your typical scummy greedy TCG card game where your average competitive match consists of the same deck in every fucking damn game... It's all about skill, getting that +4 all possible stats instawin card first before your opponent. You shouldn't question why all tournaments use random draft games when this game has such variety and balance (random draft as in "pick random cards, but not the useless ones, that wouldn't be professional").
The promised "highest fidelity" gameplay is evident, with skills such as "50% chance anyone survives on 1 hp", "completely stop your opponent from doing anything this turn as long as you act first", you are left with awesome mindful games consisting of: uncontrollable random creep placement, uncontrollable random hero placement, uncontrollable random attack targetting, uncontrollable random variety of shop items... Wait, wait, I am just telling you this game can seriously be run on a casino slot machine and no one would notice.
Valve made sure to bring some very successful capitalist practices and they did well emulating your greedy uncle's game shop. With the slogan of "no free breakfast", you are ready to get into this TRADING card game. Just open the Steam Market and buy some effin cards (thank God the prices got lower and Axe doesn't cost more than the actual game now!), Valve will thank you for purhasing this game and then get another 15% tax on each bought card too. Don't think about direct free trade with your friends, that's illegal and hurts the free market economy... you understand, goyim?
You can't bring cards out of nothing, so NO GRINDING, sorry! This is real life TCG (but also this game is very unique and innovative don't forget!). You should know how much work has Valve put into making and distributing these cards. The only way to actually get more cards is.. you guessed it right? It's good to remember your greedy uncle's game shop now. You can play with the good guys only if you pay tickets to enter the "local tournament", your prize, of course, is the ticket you paid to enter.. and a card pack if you manage to finish well enough. Or you know, just buy the cards you need from the market, as that would be the only way to win anyway. (Here I should be telling you to invest in crypto instead, and make your greedy uncle pay your taxes. You can go one level further and make your video card more useful and happy to not render Artifail.)
Don't get me wrong, you probably heard lots of good stuff about this game. Valve made sure to organize a closed invite only closed beta closed tournament with all the good card professional players you all love, they surely loved this game too and weren't there only for the money. Ahm.
Of course, you heard all the good stuff about Artifag from them and how they are happily still playing and streaming this best card game ever made, and also talking about it non-stop to their friends and their friends' mothers (and their mothers' friends' friends). You should follow them too and do it exactly as well (that is: continue playing Heartsone/Gwent/thatothergameyoulove, you don't have to think about it too much, you will do well sabotaging the competition). Valve carefully listened well to all their honest positive feedback, such game consisting of masterfully perfected core mechanics barely changed throughout the whole beta period. Even the official post-beta release is still lacking basic game functionality like chat, replays, any leaderboards or any rank system or any game history/statistics at all...
Numbers don't lie. It is THAT good and E X C I T I N G! (now pat yourselves on the back Valve)
As a good reviewer, I would tell you to definitely get this game. That is, if there are still people playing it by the time it goes free to play. :)
Either way. May RNGesus have mercy on your green paper!
For the game heralded as the "most skill intensive" DCG, almost all matches come down to RNG minion spawn or attack arrows.
The devs saw the create mechanic in Hearthstone, and said, hold my beer.
The game itself plays perfectly fine, if not a little on the way too slow side. It's a fine enough Magic style tabletop game with the added functions only a digital environment could achieve. It's fun at times, but not something I can really sit myself down for often enough.
But I just cannot get behind the games monetization. One of the advantages of making a digital ccg over a physical one is that you can get rid of all the problems the distribution of physical card games have, like replacing paying for individual cards with things like Hearthstone's dusting system (which is admittedly on the stingy side when it comes to actually dusting cards but I digress).
Not only does this game not try to break free of traditional methods of card distribution, it actively encourages it with how easy it is to just put cards onto the community market. The game is also twenty goddamn dollars at base, with the justification being they give you packs (which they just recently cut down to 5 from 10 btw), some event tickets (which are also for sale and your only way to enter the competitive ladder and drafts) and two semi-playable decks. But even games like Magic make and give away free decks to dip your toes into the game and figure the basics, and Hearthstone has the decency of things like Brawls and quests to earn more packs.
The entry fee of $20 is utterly unjustified here for the actual beginner's experience. I wanted to give this game a chance since I love Mr Garfield's game designs, but I just can't. For a similar enough experience, just go play Magic.
Amazing card game that I'm probably never going to play again because of 2 reasons. Why? Read on my brief comments below...
After 50+ hours of gameplay, here are my 2 cents:
[h1][b]1. NO PROGRESSION [/b][/h1] - why in the world wouldn't you add a progression and gamification/level system to a game like this? You absolutely cannot level up or feel the "completition" achievement in any of the game modes...
[h1][b]2. EVENT TICKETS [/b][/h1]- now this one is a joke. Basically, if you want to play ranked (called "expert" in Artifact and earn packs) you need an event ticket that, guess what.... Can only be BOUGHT for like a $1 (or you can farm these tickets if you have high win-rate ratio in ranked), so basically you either need to be REALLY GOOD at the game to continue playing ranked or just spent bucks TO PLAY RANKED. Bear in mind, you've already bought the game for 20$.
also:
- - - NO PROFILE TAB TO VIEW ANY STATS
- - - ZERO INTERACTION WITH OPPONENT
Isn't this ridicolous?
Enter the Pay2Pay era!
Awesome production value, great mechanics, beautiful lore, but the game is built around a single purpose, to dump money into it. Everything requires payment, including the competitive mode, and as of now, there's no ladders, rankings or a progression system, not even achievements, imagine that. If you're not planning to dump hundreds of euros on a digital card game, steer away from it.
Valve is a real dissapointment these days, they've lost touch with their crowd, no longer a fan.
I have never written a review before, but I will make an exception for this one.
The game is irritating, you get 5 card packs which makes no difference at all because it has no balance. If you dont want to spend extra money in card boosters, the only way to get boosters are either with tickets, or leveling Up. Good luck on that, because you will face opponents 20, 30 levels higher than you with way better cards. You get nearly no XP after each match (20 to 50) when you need 1000 or more to level up in the beggining.
Matches can last for more than half an hour, depending on the situation, and the way that cards are deployed on the battlefield and attack adjacent cards are completely random! Even if you play right against opponents with cards way better than you, make no mistakes and understand the mechanics of the game, you still need to be lucky!!
This game should be free to play, and then ppl could decide if they spend money or not with cards. Totally deserved my review so that no one else wastes more money on this piece of unbalanced garbage!
When you start the game for the first time and go trough tutorials, you're met with a pop-up message that claiming and opening your free packs makes this game non-refundable on Steam platform. Despite that red flag I accepted and continued to play for 2 days straight, before being met with a cruel realization that this game has many more microtransactions than I expected.
You start the game with 5 tickets and 10 card packs.
How to get more card packs:
[*]In order to get card packs, you need to use tickets that allow you to play in special game modes.
[*]The special game modes are just a highly RNG based (minus one) PvP battles (Not to mistake with TES:L PvE Arena system).
[*]One of these game modes allows you to draft 2 cards out of 5 pools of 10 cards and keep them after the game, but to start this mode you need to spend 2 TICKETS and 5 UNOPENED CARD PACKS.
[*]after you start one of the special games that consume tickets, you need to win minimum 3 games against other players, with maximum of 2 loses to get anything at all out of it. And that is just a refund of a ticket. Otherwise it's 1-3 tickets and 1-3 card packs, depending from wins.
[*]In case you didn't win 3 times and already lost 2 times, you get absolutely nothing and your used ticket/packs are gone.
[*]Or scratch all that and you buy card packs for roughly $2, because it's simply unlikely to win anything with the amount of out-of-control RNG that is going on in this game (No joke, it even randomizes the direction in which your creeps/heroes are going to deal damage)
Other ways of getting cards:
[*]Selling and buying them on Steam Market. However keep in mind that all the good cards are going to be much more expensive than any common board-filler. Many of them being more expensive then the card packs themselves.
How to get more tickets when you spent all of them on the game modes in hoping to win card packs:
[*] You spend irl money, around $5 per ticket.
[*] Recycling 2 card packs worth of cards (20 cards) to get 1 ticket.
[*] That's about it.
To sum it up - I really, REALLY hoped this game would be much better than what everyone else already guessed it to be. And I would lie if I said it wasn't a brand-based purchase.
Even with the crazy amounts of RNG, the game itself is pretty good, but the amount of paywalls is indeed downright disgusting. Some articles said you can play this game without spending any money, but how do you even expect to fight people who actually bought/earned enough cards to build reliable decks?
I do not recommand this game in its current state. The microtransactions are ridiculus. I only hope someday it will get a reasonable update with ways to get cards without spending money.
The fact alone you need to BUY an online card game is crazy enough.
EDIT: Isn't that just ridiculus in itself that people would need to come up with some plans and financial strategies to overcome the paywalls/make it worth your time?
Instead of advocating such behaviors and thinking workarounds, it should be brought down to the ground level and call it what it is - a ridiculus amount of microtransactions.
Game runs well, looks great and despite an enormous amount of RNG, even for a CCG, it does have some interesting interactions you can make with the mechanics, which are distinct from other CCGs like Hearthstone, Magic, Netrunner etc. So why do I not recommend this game? It’s obviously because of the payment model. You start out with 10 card packs and 5 tickets. You can earn more card packs + tickets by playing in the competitive formats but you need tickets in order to do that so once you run out of tickets there is absolutely no other way to obtain card packs or tickets without paying for them. This would be fairly ridiculous in a free to play game but this game does that after you have payed $20.
PROS
+ Very beautiful artwork and graphics
+ Runs fantastically on Linux and uses Vulkan ! (like DOTA2, still has to be mentioned)
+ Tight UI, well thought, setting up a game is intuitive and fast, in game UI is good too.
+ Fun imps making faces
+ Good sounds, fun voices (had genuine laugh at the Ogre Magi)
+ Some interesting tactical mechanics (lane reordering, action turn bluff...)
CONS
- Multiple stacked layers of RNG. No control on the game flow (random card placement in lanes..), personal RNG deck in draft mode (no shared draft), full RNG hand at the start of the game with no deck order control (and then RNG card picks), RNG card effects.. It's definitely not Star Realms, or to pick another Garfield product, it's absolutely not Netrunner. Results in really infuriating games where you have zero control on the game flow, be it a win or a loss.
- No personal progression unless paying for tickets AND winning which is not a given at all
- Zero social interaction even out of games (apart from direct steam friends)
- No ladder, no replay, no history. Largely plays like a single player game
- Some horribly unbalanced cards, in both directions.
VERDICT
Cant really recommend it. There are way better CCG's out there, with a more rewarding gameplay experience. That's a shame because this one is a well crafted, beautiful product. The full-on RNG kills it for me.
Pros:
Better visuals than most card games. Unique 3 lane gameplay allows for fun and varied gameplay styles. There are a ride range of cards at release and I can see some very big plays with certain decks builds.
Cons:
There is zero way to gain cards other than pay out of your pocket. Every other card game has a ingame currency where you can grind to progress but not here. I am already bored of this game as there's no method of progression.
The game didn't accept my refund because of i open a box during the start of the game(force to open so that u can't get a refund)  The game is too hard to play only for 5 hours which was waste of my time and i highly recommend that you shouldn't buy this game
keep getting bong by those rich kids. and no way to earn new card without adding more money . game play is really nc but how i gonna play card game with just trush cards
The game itself doesn't look bad. In the beginning you will have tons of fun, building decks, opening your first 10 packs and luckily acquiring Axe as rare hero, just like I did.
After that, I was playing around in the social plays and I was really enjoying the game.
But later, it gets boring and boring. The cards that matter are so expensive! You will get stuck in a way that you can not expand your library if you don't spend some money in the market or by buying some packs.
If you like being competitive (like I do), you have 5 tickets on the beginning and that's it... you need to satisfy yourself with the casual play or buy some tickets with real money.
For those who have played MTG Arena you will understand my point here. MTG has a system that you can play for free. Are you going to take a long time until you build your deck? The answer is yes! But at least you have the feeling that you're moving forward with the deck you wanna build.
As a result... ARTIFACT: no money = no cards = boredom
Unfortunately!
About 100 hours in now. can't say that I am a veteran, but can't say I didn't give it a shot, either.
The pay-to-play-aspect didn't bother me too much in draft. Usually I make enough packs to recycle cards/sell cards for tickets and be playing endlessly, more or less. The inital price is justified thinking about how much time I could genuinely spend on the game.
Drafting was a lot of fun for a while, but now that I have explored the process, the novelty fades.
The endless RNG is becoming frustrating.
Slowly farming booster packs isn't incentive enough to cover this up for me.
Getting 3 very bad drafts in a row, losing a highly favored game to cheating death and I must say: I've had it for now.
Haven't gotten behind the paywall for constructed yet, but watching streamers I get the impression that this mode has some serious issues. I won't spend the extra money just to try it.
I think the game has a lot of potential, but for now I must answer the question
"Does my life quality improve from spending time on Artifact?"
with a clear "No".
I'll have more time for more fun things now.
This game is actually very fun and theres a lot of complexity. There is no way that i can recommend this due to its monetization regarding tournaments, or even casual collecting of cards.
packs are £1.59
constructed must win 3 games before you get that ticket back, before you lose two games. if you win two additional games (up to 5) you get one or two packs respectively to open. again before you lose 2 games.
the first draft tournament is one ticket, works as above for prize support and you DONT keep your cards you draft.
the second draft game you spend two tickets and 5(!) packs to enter. basically same rewards as above, but you do keep your drafted cards too.
there is no other way to obtain cards, apart from market or buy a pack.
you can break down excess cards on a 20 to 1 basis for 1 ticket.
I really do love this mechanically and this will be fun to play casually with friends, but i honestly cant recommend this because of its real world cardgame monetization into a virtual cardgame, where you can never get your money back as any cards you decide to sell goes straight back to your steam wallet.
Holy cow.
I won't go into details about the pricing model or the RNG as the main thrust of my critique; those issues have been more or less beat to death at this point.
But WOW is this game boring. Like, unbelievably, mind-numbingly boring. Matches take a very long time for a CCG, and the action just isn't all that great. Perhaps it gets better at higher level play, but it just wasn't worth my time sticking around to find out. The starter decks feel so weak and lack synergy, so new players are welcomed to this overwrought game by stacks of cards that just feel so lame.
GIven the alternatives on the market, in its current state, there is no way in hell I would recommend Artifact to a friend. Maybe to an enemy.
Total garbage. At least I got my money back selling the cards which is nearly impossible now, since 99% of cards are worthless and you don't get 10 packs for buying the game anymore, only 5. (I know, I know, you can get packs by playing. But keep in mind this game had 60k people at launch and now it has 500). For all of you saying the game is not pay2win and it's cheaper to build a deck than Hearthstone, you're just fanboys.... I've been playing Hearthstone for a year now and I have several competitive decks, and I only bought the welcome pack, which is the cheapest. The only thing Artifact does better than Hearthstone (and basically every other card game) is that all cards you get are marketable and tradable. It's an interesting game, but Valve is greedy af. This should be free2play. Don't buy it, you will regret it.
It's hard for me to openly and honestly recommend Artiact as it currently stands. The draft mode is probably the most compelling aspect of it, but every time I boot up the game and play a few games I end my session feeling exhausted. Not in the "Ah that was a satisfying battle of wits way" but more of a "There's just a lot of information on screen" kind of way.
I feel like many of the systems in the game aren't there for gameplay, they're there to be similar to Dota 2, and while I appreciate the efforts, they just don't work well together.
The two biggest pains points for me: Imbalance and Randomness.
Card games do not have perfectly balanced cards, it's the nature of the beast and what ends up making draft formats funs. But Artifact is different in that it has Heroes. Unlike "bombs" you draft in, say, Magic: The Gathering, heroes are core to your strategy in the game, and keep coming back the entire game. They sway battles just by existing, sometimes in other lanes. The difference in a good hero and a bad one is GIGANTIC, to the point where having one or two key heroes in your draft can seriously carry you hard.
Randomness is also huge in Artifact. It's built into the core game. Due to how position on units works, you have a 25% chance to attack a target to your left or right, regardless of if your lane is full or empty. This takes away from a lot of the strategy planning ahead can have in combat, but does make combat tricks feel more valuable. Either way, this on top of the three decks in your shop, on top of natural card draw, on top of cards with random effects... It just feels like too much. The series of small random chances do help shake up the game, but sometimes they throw battles into your opponents favor out of seemingly nowhere. It makes for good back and forth gameplay sometimes, but even after 15 hours I can feel it grating on me.
Artifact is a good game for a certain kind of player, I'm on the fence on whether or not I'm that kind of player. I'm enjoying Casual Phantom Draft for now but each time I run through a draft, I just find myself not wanting to touch the game for a few days.
Artifact might be for you, but it's certainly not for everyone.
The worst buy I made last year, for sure.
Not only is the game devoid of any progression or anything to earn you cards (at least at launch, it seems they added it now, too little too late for me though), but it's also a very complex, high-skill game where SO many decisions you make across a single game have so much impact on its outcome, that half the time I don't know what I could've done right unlike other games such as Hearthstone, shadowverse, hell even magic.
If you're a casual card game player, avoid this like the plague.
Biggest regret of 2018.
Pay for access, pay to win, pay to play outside of practice modes. Everything is pay, pay, pay.
Gameplay itself is ok, but has some flaws. Match takes too long (around 40 minutes), and there's too much randomness for my liking.
Got this game for free. Probably would have paid for it if I hadn't. Glad I didn't in hindsight.
I've enjoyed the times I played it, but never felt motivated to come back. The few times I returned were because I was trying to make an active effort to give it a fair chance.
Unlike Hearthstone, I also didn't ever feel the urge to play "just one more game". This is mostly due to the fact that it is a much more complex game, and therefore each game is on average more taxxing to play than its more casual competitors. As great as it feels pulling off some creative tactics that bamboozle your opponents, it feels equally as crummy when it happens against you. This is mostly due to the amount of things to keep track of, and unless you have the patience to think through every possible outcome, you'll probably not have a great time.
Here's a timeline of my experiences with the game:
1. I started it up, and immediately wasn't sure if I should open packs or save them for keepers drafts.
2. Decided to play a bunch of the premade deck events instead. (over the holidays)
3. Was too busy to play for about a month.
4. Came back, and the playerbase had essentially died.
5. Haven't opened it since, and my packs are still sitting there uncracked.
If it weren't for the fact that this game seems like a sinking, if not already sunk, ship at this point, I'd recommend it to anyone who enjoys a game where you have the potential to make some really creative plays, yet has the patience to analyze and find the ideal move (not me). A game like this requires a strong community however, and at this point it seems like a lost cause.
It's like playing in a Road Runner episode, only... you're Wile E. Coyote and nothing works the way it should.
RNG. You get or you don't get the cards (like every cardgame), but on top of that, random items in the shop, random number of creep spawns, random position of creep in lane, random position of heroes in lane, random attack directions,  random-random-random everything in drafts.
With MMR, you eventually get ppl close to your skill level, which means games are decided mostly by RNG. But... you need to win 5 before you lose 2.
Now add real money to that mix. Pay for those tickets and packs only for game after game after game to be fucked by RNG (in  your favor or not). Fun, ha?
Do NOT buy game! There is no players, this is my newest edit, in my previous ones I talked about problems and many of them were the reason why Artifact lost playerbase, Valve was silent as usual but what they usually do  was not right move here as this was failed game, it needed communication, good communication, not just "wait for who knows how long till we do something with game", that is what their newest blog gives, read it here https://steamcommunity.com/games/583950/announcements/detail/1819924505115920089
Even Valve states that game failed and it will be reworked into who knows what and who knows when.....for same reason I believe this game should be pulled from store (until they update game and reveal that Artifact v2) or have big warning on store-page that game is not supported in current state and will be changed.
-------------------------------------------------------------------
Why I can't recommend it, well it is simple, in current state it just doesn't come even close (features/monetazation) to game from where Artifact idea/theme comes from, and if it doesn't improve soon, it will lose almost all playerbase so I hope Valve is reading/listening to feedback and that will act quickly.
Edit: Game was updated, added skill rating (altho it is very bad, skill rating means nothing), seasons, leveling, with leveling you can earn tickets and card packs (seems 15 per season, altho no idea how long season lasts) but sadly at same time they also made 1 thing worse and it is shame (it is like 1 big step forward then 1 step back at same time), [b]buying game used to reward players with 10 packs 5 ticket and now it rewards you with 5 packs and 2 tickets and I think this is big mistake [/b], Valve made some good improvements but with this change they are making game more expensive at start (game that already lacks playerbase, wtf). Then many features are still missing and rewards for ticket modes unchanged, very low, not worth buying ticket for it,  that needs to change (increase rewards for ticket modes) with hopefully some way to get more players like going f2p (letting people play standard modes and if they wanna play prized modes then buy tickets/game) or at least demo (let people try game, 2 tutorial games) that will give players view into game before buying it then I think I will be able to recommend this game.
Artifact is card game based on Dota, runs on same engine, uses almost same interface, if you open Dota and Arifact you will see that menu, options are been copied nicely and that is good but what is not good is that game has been rushed and so many things are missing, I could say that probably just 10% of Dota feautres are in Artifact, some very important features that need to be in Artifact are not here (list of in my opinon features that are missing is posted down in review).
Edit2: Since last update there is progression and bad skill rating system, leveling that rewards you for playing with rewards like card packs or tickets, however one thing still stands when it comes to rewards for ticket modes,it feels like hunger game, people are losing more than winning no matter what. rewards are low, not really worth buying ticket, just getting even, getting ticket back is very hard, you need 3 wins for ticket back, 2 wins will reward you nothing (half ticket would be nice / 10 random common cards, you can recycle 20 for 1 ticket), rewards needs to be increased, and when it comes to effects, nothing special, you don't even see "big bang" effects when you claim rewards (compared to other card games)
Gameplay-vise lots of frustrating RNG  (RNG where you don't have much control over outcome), long games and lots of empty turns are expected if you play game, they need to find way to minimize empty turns (turns where you have nothing to play while your enemy also has nothing to play or maybe worse he plays card after card and you have nothing for few turns),  empty turns are big unfun factor in this game. Also game doesn't have lots of combo plays, more like just boring +stats buffs, little onplay effects and some crazy spell/abilties/onplay effect combos so there is no much highlight worthy flashy plays...
[b]As far as features go, as I said there are so many that they could copy from Dota yet they didn't, so here is what is missing in my opinion (Dota-like features):[/b]
1. [strike]No progression , or some kind of ladder.[/strike]  (added skill rating but this solution after some playime feels useless, game still lacks proper good ranked mode, mmr and leaderboards,  seasons and leveling system system that rewards you with packs/tickets are ok, 15 ticket/packs per season)
2. Region/custom/[strike]ingame chat [/strike] (ingame chat added)
3. Better friends/chat ui that doesn't involve steam overlay,
4. Spectate mode (Dota has DotaTV, CSGO has CSGOTV) with filters for friends/top games/or compared to Dota where we can filter to find games with specific hero, in Artifact it would be nice to filter for colors.
5. Replays and match history (there is no match history with stats, wtf) are one of most important feautres that are missing.
6. Profile UI with stats and comments and match history
7. checking opponent ingame profile and stats
8. [strike]Adding[/strike] (you can try to add opponent after game)
9. There could be even twitch/steam.tv embed somewhere with option to hide/show that remembers your option choice.
10. Game is not free 2 play, tickets are used for modes with rewards, but as I said rewards are low, just feels not worth it, wait to change, ask for change.
11. Many players suggested demo for game if it's not going f2p (standard modes only f2p), let people play tutorial (2 games), let people try game before buying it.
And some in my opinion not Dota-like features that should be in Artifact:
Hearthstone-like collection view.
Drafting against friends 1v1.
Events (HS-like weekly brawl that rewards with something even f2p players).
[b]Menu optimization is improved but still very intensive compared to ingame performance, I hope they are still working on optimization and as far as menu goes, it could use 1 more Dota like system option that can improve performance on low-mid end pc - "low quality dashboard".[/b] (This might help little bit, https://steamcommunity.com/app/583950/discussions/0/1741101364283976160/)
This game atm is very demanding, harder to run than Dota (same engine, same UI), and this is card game for card game one would expect way better performance, I have no idea how they plan to make this game run on mobile (they said it will come to mobile early-mid 2019)
I hope I will see some updates aimed to improve performance.
Also as always Valve is silent on all fronts (no advertising, blog, no community manager, twitter is little bit active for now), I don't care that Valve is known for their "silent work", it is time for change, silence doesn't work in every single situation, Valve needs to talk to playerbase, let us know what are your plans, road map (what feautres can we expect down the road), something...
I hope they are at least working on something, game is losing players. (Also once again my review leans towards not recommended but after all improvements I can see light at end of tunnel, game needs more improvements, and I don't see reason for $20 paywall with already ticket paywall ingame for drafts and extra card paywall for constructed, it is multiplayer game it should go f2p (standard modes only), also more features (Dota-like menu features) before I can recommend game)
Oh man i've played TCGs before but this s**t is insane. The RNG is off the charts where one random effect can ruin 30 minutes of carefull planning. Now i know games like this rely on RNG to draw cards but the abilities themselves are a hellhole. The only good thing is the limited time mode that's on right now but I have a feeling its not gonna last. Word of advice if you do buy it, sell all your rare and uncommon cards cause this game unlike DotA wont last long.
The monetisation of Artifact has been done to death, ultimately people will decide if they want to put money into what I would say is a relatively cheap card game compared to others on the market, so instead I'm just going to discuss the gameplay.
First up, the gameplay itself is very engaging. It's undeniable that matches are incredibly intense and absorbing experiences. There're plenty of things to keep track of without being too overwhelming, and the cards are fun to play around with even if there's a lack of fancy visual effects to everything. One of Artifact's least touted, but I believe best, features is that you're very rarely out of a match until you lose your last few structure points. I've eked out wins from opening positions that went disasterously and I've had victory snatched away from me in situations where I'd been ahead all game. That kind of balance in a card game, particularly in Artifact which has relatively few board clear effects, is pretty impressive.
On a bad note about the gameplay, the learning curve to the strategy is somewhat fiddly. You make a lot of decisions in Artifact that, unfortunately, you never really get to find out if they were good or not. For instance, if you choose to abandon a lane then you'll never really know how it impacted the game outcome, even after the match finishes, because games generally run close anyway. You could argue that this just means that figuring out the strategic nuances in the game will take longer and so players will remain invested in playing, but it's sort of frustrating when you're trying to learn, and I suspect it's the kind of thing you only really have an understanding of after a considerable number of hours.
However, engaging gameplay aside, Artifact does have one big problem at the moment and that's that there's not actually anything meaningful to do in it yet. There's no progression. If you play at the moment then you're just playing for the thrill of the matches themselves. The only meaningful progression available is the Expert Phantom Draft, which rewards card packs. If you're good then you can technically grind up a collection this way while still playing and enjoying the game. You could also get packs from Expert Constructed wins to expand your collection, however to play Constructed in the first place then you've probably paid to get a fair bit of the game collection already anyway. But that's it. There's no ladder, no visible ranked matchmaking (the casual matchmaking will put you against someone at your MMR, but it's not a visible number), no achievements, no campaign adventure, nothing.
It's understandable that the game's essentially in early days and the game itself works beautifully, but there's just not a lot to do at the moment that earns you any kind of progression. Arguably, playing the game itself and getting more skillful at it is meaningful progression, but, let's face it, the gamers of today (myself included) want something visible to show for their time. Even an account level experience bar like in DOTA would be a start!
To finish, I've enjoyed the ~20 hours I've put in so far and I haven't spent a penny other than the initial buy in. I've Casual Phantom Drafted the whole way and enjoyed it aplenty, but I'm going with a negative review overall because matches, while intense and fun, are also fairly mentally taxing and when you remember that you get nothing to show for the effort you put in then it does make the prospect of playing another match seem a bit daunting. In other games, playing for the sake of playing would be fine, but a competitive card game needs something to show for your efforts. I'm sure Valve will implement something like this in time, and if they do then I'll likely change this to a positive, but for now I'd avoid unless you really want to sink your teeth into the gameplay itself.
Very disappointed I can't expand my library of cards without paying real cash. I feel like I paid an expensive cover fee to a really aesthetically pleasing bar that doesn't serve any alcohol on a Saturday night...
I would be willing to grind if I felt I could eventually get the cards I wanted...
I guess I should've paid closer attention to the comments before going off the hype.
Great concept visually and gameplay-wise, I think the communities are waking up to money-grabbing schemes put on by the branding companies...*Cough*Bethesda- Fallout76*Cough* - there are too many of companies trying to do the same schemes for the creators to keep getting away with it. The people who earn money by trading their time, which is a vast majority of their player base, are like sheep being lead to the slaughter house.
I had High expectations with the game, played it on day 1 release. after a few days I stopped playing. Just got bored with the mechanics and It's not fun to be honest. Heads should roll. Wasted money :(
Had fun for a bit, but then got really bored of casual play as there's literally NOTHING to gain out of it but the 'joy of the round'. The most fun I had was in Competitve, specifically with Keeper Draft.
Sadly the event tickets are ridiculous and I'm not paying for those. It's one thing to buy 5 packs to enter into the keeper draft, screw 2 event tickets on top of that.
Hearthstone has more replayability in casual even, you get like 10 gold after ever 3 wins or something - I wish Artifact would give you like 1 event ticket after every 10 wins or something. Otherwise buying 5 packs, spending 2 tickets, and winning only 2 times so you don't even qualify the reward... HORESHI
*EDIT* to the person who commented below, I still disagree with the cost of the event tickets. Especially needing 2 of them to play a keeper draft on top of the 5 packs, while you only need 1 ticket for other competetive modes. If my friends and I all buy Magic packs and make an impromptu cube match, we can keep all the cards we drew as well but didn't have to for a ticket to play - especially 2 of them.
Not being able to earn cards without paying money or useing the market. is the biggest reason i cant reccomend this game. its super fun and really fresh but its just half a game even if you pay the 18 euro it asks its no where near enough to play for real.
Pretty sweet game with a God-aweful economy. Basically pay for everything...
The game itself is freaking amazing, it has to be the best strategy CCG I played. It's deep, complex, engaging.
But the way you can't earn anything for free, and have to pay for absolutely everything is a huge deal breaker for me.
I cannot reccomend this game.
After paying close to 30SGD, you do not get the full game.
Instead, you pay 30SGD to be told that you do not have access to the entire game.
There is NO FREE WAY to earn card packs; the only way up is by spending money.
Too Long; Didn;t Read
DOTA 2 is great because its a free to play model.
Artifact is bad because it is a Pay to Win model.
i really like card games and mechanically this game is pretty neat (likely due to Richard Garfield's involvement) but the internal economic system provides no way to expand your collection and compete in some of the potentially more competitive and high-skill game modes, such as ranked competitive play.
event tickets are the currency used to enter game modes wherein you have the chance to win that ticket back and potentially earn a couple of packs. you are provided with 10 packs and 5 tickets to start with. if you open these 10 packs and get garbage rares worth nothing on the marketplace, and you exhaust the 5 tickets provided, you currently have no way to earn a single more card other than to pour more money into the game, or 'game' the marketplace with your current cards in the hopes of turning a profit.
the ability to make beneficial trades to increase the value of your collection is something seen in physical card games (such as Garfield's 'Magic: The Gathering'), and the decision to allow users to buy, sell and trade cards is a welcome one. however, physical card games like MTG provide players with opportunities to engage in weekly local contests (such as Friday Night Magic events) at little to no cost - and at these events, you can potentially earn new packs or cards, and trade with and meet other players.
the mechanics of this card game in themself are very interesting, fun to play with, and make for consistently close games. they've managed to make every game a challenge, and there is a good balance of opportunities for skillful play and roll-of-the-die chance that makes for a really fun time. but the combination of a pretty malicious monetization scheme (for a PAID pc game) and the complete lack of any social play means that i can't in good faith recommend this to anyone.
tl;dr: really interesting card game with a terrible monetization scheme and a lack of social play opportunities. if you have a lot of expendable income and an interest in card games check it out, if you don't.. don't
This is Pay-to-Win and Pay-To-Play to the core. There is no way to win a Casual Constructed Gauntlet, if you don't buy cards. 90% of my opponents has the strongest heroes and cards in the entire collection. The only games I manage to win is casual global matchmaking.
It's really a shame as I think that Artifact has the best gameplay and potential of any card game out there. If they don't fix the economic model, I don't recommand buying the game unless you are ready to put your credit card hero on the table
As a Valve game, we expect a good game. And that's one, as long as you pay.
Easy to learn, hard to master. Do not worry, the two tutorials of the game make us perfectly understand the basic mechanics. Then, the game invites you to open your pre-built decks, then to discover your boosters: you agree to waive the refund of the game.
Once your boosters are opened, you can play all the game modes. And that’s where you see the biggest problem of the game.
[list][*]Do you want to play with your custom deck? You can build it only with the cards you own.
[*]Do you want a new card (via a card booster)? You have to pay, and you are not sure which cards you will receive.
[*]Do you want a particular card? Go to the community market, and pay.
[*]Do you want a ticket to try to win a reward? Take out your credit card.
[*]There is simply no way to earn free cards (no reward system, no daily login bonus, no community challenge, nothing).[/list]
Yes, you can win boosters by participating in runs. However, the ratio required to win cards is very low (4 wins for a maximum of 1 loss), so you will easily lose your tickets. By buying Artifact, you receive 5 tickets. Spend 1 ticket to (maybe) win a reward:
[list][*]Win 3 games (with maximum 1 defeat) to win 1 ticket.
[*]Win 4 games (with maximum 1 defeat) to win 1 ticket + 1 booster cards.
[*]Win 5 games (with maximum 1 defeat) to win 1 ticket + 2 booster cards.
[*]Lose 2 times, and your run stops.[/list]
Finally, yes, you can play with all the cards in the game for free. This game mode is called the [i]Casual Phantom Draft[/i]. But the cards drawn are random, and will never belong to you. Once your deck is built with these cards, you participate for free in a run, in the same way as paid runs with tickets, except that you will never win anything. Once a condition of end of run occurs (5 victories for 1 maximum defeat, or 2 defeats), the run ends. You will need to redo a new deck with other cards.
The reflection is long, if you lose a lot, you will spend a lot of time creating a deck against little time to play. You will be quickly disgusted with the game.
I cannot recommend the game. It is riddled with RNG and I think it really suffers from poor design choices.
I did enjoy my time with it for the first few days where I was immersed in the game, learning the mechanics and just enjoying the polished visuals and sound design which I think are better than any other card game I have played.
However it didn't take long until the cracks started to appear. Almost every single thing that happens in the game has an underlying coin flip/dice roll that can decide an outcome. Creep spawns, hero deployment positions, random damage effects of cards like plague ward that could be the difference between upkeep-killing a hero or dealing 2 damage to a creep... Not to mention fundamentally poorly designed cards like Cheating Death whose existence alone proves that the game is just not very well thought-out.
All in all, I might come back to it if the game receives a complete overhaul to its core mechanics or at the very least an interesting expansion. The problem is with the way that the economy is designed, Valve has left themselves in a position where they can't really balance cards...
So really I don't know what can save this game from itself.
TL;DR - I have mixed feelings about the game. Don't like the cost of playing / time investment. I don't think I would buy / play it, even if it were free to play. I also think that if this game came from any other developer, it would never get off the ground...But that's my opinion.
For those wondering, I had a beta key, which translated into a free copy of the game.
*Updated the review to try to reflect the game release.*
What follows is my own opinion. I cannot speak for everyone, and believe everyone is entitled to their own opinion. If you have the spare cash and curious about the game, go ahead and buy it and make your own judgment.
I've dabbled in a few card games in the past few years (now that they're popular), and by no means an expert. I've played MTG, Hearthstone, Elder Scrolls: Legends and a few others here and there, including some table tops with some personal friends. I will try not to compare Artifact too much to other games, but they also tend to be the baseline for comparison.
Without further ado...
Artifact brings its own spin on the electronic card game genre. It pulls from other card games like the colours + varying playstyles from MTG and the lanes function from Elder Scrolls: Legends, all the while implementing core concepts from Dota like lanes, item purchasing, heroes, creeps and abilities.
Pros:
+ Visuals are really nice. If you like the visual style from Dota, you'll feel right at home.
+ Unique card mechanics you don't see in other card games (like Cleave), while implementing traditional mechanics like deathtouch (insta-kill) and trample (additional damage to lifepoints).
+ Win condition in the game is pretty cool. Destroy two of three towers in different lanes or Destroy the tower + Core in one lane.
+ Deckbuilding is nice. Minimum of 40 cards (no limit) and 9 items. The two are distinct from one another and don't contribute towards the same card total. I anticipate the game will bring in a lot of different deck permutations to keep the meta fresh. You have plenty of creeps, spells and Improvements (a type of passive ability you can add to a lane)
+ Cards and heroes bring unique abilities to the table
+ Access to casual (free) game modes like drafts, constructed (more on that below) and friend battles (albeit with no rewards).
All and all, Artifact is a nice card game which although doesn't bring anything super revolutionary, is still unique enough to keep things fresh. I don't anticipate the game to become stale because everyone can pick different colour combinations, each with different playstyles AND different heroes to choose from with varying abilities.
I should note while deckbuilding that each hero comes with three ability cards which contribute towards the card total for a deck. You are obligated to pick 5 heroes per deck, which takes 15 card slots from a minimum of 40. Make of it what you want. I personally think it's good for newer players to alleviate the deckbuilding process, but also think it is a little restrictive if you want a low card count while also ensuring you have everything you need from your deck. But then again, you can't have everything without making compromises.
Cons:
- LOOOONG games. This is partly due to the fighting in the three lanes. Each player gets 30-45 seconds to play a card, followed by another 30-45 second rebuttle until each player passes, then there's a face off. You can easily spend 5 minutes in a single lane, and deal next to no damage to the enemy tower. Games can easily last 20 minutes to an hour.
- Difficult to understand mechanics (at first). The tutorial only skims over the core concepts of the game, but this is no Hearthstone. The only way to learn the mechanics is to try them out. It can be difficult to understand which spells affects which target and who can target who. Don't get me wrong, complexity is awesome! However, I think the tutorial should provide examples of certain spells. Some descriptions could also benefit of a wording update.
- Lack of reward system for investing time. No login rewards, no in-game currency, and no way to "win" packs without spending money.
- The best card in this game is your credit card. The only way to obtain cards, packs and event tickets (this last one can also be acquired through card recycling) is through real money transactions. When the game releases, the marketplace will be available to purchase cards. This also means that unless you are willing to spend money, you will be locked out from competitive game modes such as phantom draft or keeper draft. If you intend to play competitively, constructed, and keep up with the game evolution and/or meta, expect to have to purchase cards/packs as they come out.
- The monetization model is disappointing to say the least. The game costs $22USD (which granted, provides you with two decks, 5 event tickets and 10 packs). The initial game cost + paying for cards + paying for packs + paying for event tickets will hurt you where it hurts most: Your wallet. Lord Gaben will roll around in the cash cow that is the card game genre in 2018.
If you've made it this far, I hope this review was helpful to make the decision on whether or not to buy the game. For me, it comes down to finances and the length of the games. I don't see myself capping out my credit card on virtual cards nor spending an hour to play a single game with no reward at the end of it all, especially when its competitors provide incentives to keep playing (in the form of card packs or in-game currency). If Valve comes up with a way to reward players for time spent playing, I might reconsider. As it stands currently, I can't recommend the game.
This game is good.
I have spent nearly all my hours in Draft and I really enjoy the mechanics, but if you are thinking that this will be something to replace Hearthstone or MTG Arena you are dead wrong.
Let’s get it out of the way, the monetization is indeed flawed, the only way you obtain cards is via your own money being sucked into Gabe Newels wallet, passing right by the grave of Gordon Freeman.
Progression
Every game you win and play will feel unrewarded and just a waste of time. There is no reason to play. You don’t get anything at all for playing any match other than Expert play which is just casual mode where you pay real money to have a chance at winning anything rewarding. There is no XP, no ranking system and no virtual currency (or arcane dust) earned through winning.
Heroes and Balance
There a lot of low tier heroes and a select few A or God tier heroes, now there being strong cards in a Card Game is not an issue, but this on top of the progression and monetization really ruins this game. Axe (a good hero card) at the time of this review is on the market for $31… Annihilation (A board wipe card) is $10… soo if you want to just outright buy the cards then hope you’re willing to drop $100 on your deck.
Card Packs and the Luck of the Draw
You can get cards in these card packs that come for free with the base game, so essentially you have a chance to get cards that have no value. The packs themselves are just too expensive ($2.50 or like $2.80 if you’re in the AU), yes they cost the same as a regular tcg games card packs but when I buy a regular card pack of let’s say Pokémon, I get a physical item. I’m getting an item here that cannot be traded and can’t be used in any other way than to play this game; while other virtual card games do the same most of those games are free 2 play.
Tldr
Bad monetization, no progression and no reason to buy this game.
This game has promise.
That said, don't buy it. It's a mess currently. The amount of RNG in this game is staggering, it makes Hearthstone look like a good game. Now if you play TCGs you'll know that managing RNG from draws and resources is par for the course. It's literally the bread and butter of deck construction. Minimizing bad outcomes and maximizing good ones. However this game has 4 layers of RNG, all of which work against eachother to make preparing a winning boardstate almost entirely a matter of chance and very little skill.
The 4 layers of RNG are
Your spell deck
Your Item deck
Your lane placements
Your arrow placements
How do we prevent ourselves from being fucked in other games? Well we build a good deck with a good resource curve and a win condition, then we fill out our deck with ways to get our win condition on the board, OR survive long enough to get our win condition on the board. We can do that in this game, for the most part. We can still get bad luck and draw cards we don't need or can't play, but that's ok, we're used to that RNG that's part of deck building.
Now you also have an item deck, you put 9 cards, they show up in the shop in random order, hopefully you have the resources to play them when they show up. Maybe you won't. Maybe you won't see the item you need. Same kind of thing as above, however these compound as one of your items may be part of your win condition. AND the resource generation for this deck is based in... ANOTHER LAYER OF RNG.
Lane deployments! Your first turn your heroes go to what are essentially random lanes. I honestly can't remember if the 1/2/3 order puts them in left middle right, or if they just randomly get assigned to a lane, However it doesn't matter since you don't actually get to see what heroes the enemy is fielding before the decision is made, so they're essentially random anyways. You don't know where the turn 1 creeps are going, and you have no option to perhaps double up heroes in 1 lane and sac a lane. You also don't have your cards drawn at this point either so you wouldn't be able to make an informed decision about what spells you have when deciding lanes. Then at the same time Creeps are sent to the lanes randomly. Enjoy that. Do you have a hero who buffs creeps? well he might be alone. he may NEVER get creeps in his lane. Sure there are cards that create creeps, but that's another layer of RNG of course. Now, Depending on how the game matched up your heroes and creeps in lanes, 1 or 2 of 4 situations will occur in each lane. You'll have a hero vs a hero, your hero vs their creep, their hero vs your creep, or creep vs creep. Depending on how this Randomly assigned lane organization plays out in each lane, you may just lose a hero on your first turn, giving the enemy a gold advantage. Maybe you drew into a 1/2/3 cost card of the color of your hero that needs it, but maybe you didn't. Anyways now you have no gold, and your enemy has some. Turn 2 comes around! They buy items, you don't. Welp snowballing has already occured, and now it's time for RNG 4.
The arrows! you get to deploy your 4th hero, Maybe you're putting in to a lane to replace a hero, or into a lane to support another hero. Who knows! Well one thing you do know, you won't get to choose where in the lane it goes! You just send it to a lane and hope it ends up where you want it to. And you also hope that it is attacking the thing you want it to. YAY more RNG. Sure there are spells that will move arrows, or move units. However they're rare, there are 2-3 effects that swap units, and under 10 that change attack targets accross all 4 colors. Sure it's set 1, but this is a HUGE part of the game. Hope you draw into them, oh btw arrows reset after things die. hope you get an advantageous 2nd arrow.
If you're still reading at this point, know that I've been playing card games for 30 years at a highly competitve level. I have no problem with the draw RNG inherent in deckbuilding games. However these layers of RNG compound on eachother to take away any and all agency you as a player should have. That is why I cannot recommend this game despite how excited I was for it.
I should point out, I only ever write reviews for games that I care about. There are plenty of other games out there that I hate, that I silently just uninstall. This game could be amazing, however currently it's not worth your time, let alone your money. You'd be better off sinking quarters in a slot machine Less RNG.
All CCG == Credit Card Game and Payment Simulator 2018 jokes aside, I didn't find the game fun. While it definitely has unique mechanics and high production value, the gameplay itself didn't click with me and business model I disagree with definitely did not help.
Please note that this is just my personal opinion - you may find the game fun, so I would suggest checking it out yourself, as you can always refund it before reaching 2h mark / claiming card packs that come with the initial purchase.
